# text-moji
Text-Moji iOS App

The idea for our senior design project includes taking the Emoji app one step further. Emoji’s are tiny cartoon icons that are representations of human emotion. Emoji’s are actual built-in apps (or features) on smartphones nowadays. Despite having a wide range of pictures to choose from to convey how the user feels or what the user is doing, the picture selection is limited. The idea for our app is to integrate the use of the camera in the smartphone and allow the user to create Emoji’s. For example when a person feels joyous, they will use the happy face Emoji, ‘☺’, which is not enough to convey the individual’s feelings. Our app will be able to give the user an option to take a picture of oneself, effectively like a selfie. The user has the option to edit the picture by adding text or a drawing to create an Emoji or leave the picture alone. The project was inspired by the app, SnapChat, a popular app that makes text communication fun and exciting. Our Emoji app will be similar to SnapChat in a way that allows users to draw or write on the photos they took, but it differs by offering the user personal customized Emoji’s. The app will also feature an implementation that will allow users to store the created Emoji’s on the user’s phone with keyboard shortcuts to send the desired Emoji as a text message. An example would be ‘:)’ would no longer create this ‘☺’ but will display the user’s personal Emoji instead. We have decided to call this project, “Text Moji”.
 	Essentially, Text Moji is a text messaging application that allows the user to take pictures and utilize it in various ways. The app allows the user to take a picture using the front facing camera or the back facing camera. After a picture is taken, it can be set as an Emoji or as a background to a message - similar to Snapchat. The difference between Text Moji and Snapchat is that this app allows the pictures to be saved. The pictures can be reused so the user doesn’t have to take a picture every time. Or if the user chooses to, there is an option to delete the picture. The reason for involving pictures and self Emoji’s is to introduce a new phenomenon of social communication. It would be an exciting form of social interaction through the use of Emoji’s based on the communicator’s face in order to create a near life-like experience.
 	Text Moji will primarily allow communication between users on mobile devices. The application will allow remembering contacts and messaging them through a unique user name or ID. A back-end server would be required to store user information and ultimately allow for inter-user communication. Our initial target audience will be iPhone users and with plans on extending availability and support to Android along with other devices such as Windows phones. Because the product is a mobile app, network data use conservation is a great concern. Since Text Moji will be a picture-heavy application, it will be ideal to allow the user to cache and reuse other people's contact images to avoid sending repetitive data.
